## Measure discussion notes 10/24/24

Zibi: Look at notes for uom library.  Consider Java's Measure. This follows ISO 18000

If there is a Measure class, what does it accept for the units?

If you have a Measure instance, what are the things it's converting to and from

Discussion of currencies
* Make it a separate object?

Question: is currency a unit, or is it not a unit?

- On certain highways, you have to pay a toll. The price of the toll is euros / kilometer
- Gasoline in dollars per gallon
- Currency can be in numerator

Eemili(?) Formatters for currencies need different requirements. reserve three-character upper-case ASCII strings for currencies

Zibi: ISO 80000 allows custom units w/o conversions. You can specify custom units, you can use it to produce cuteness per kitten

Mihai: currencies aren't units.
* they act like units in some ways, but they're not units.
* currency is less stable than units

Eemili: I'd push them to be the same class

Shane:
Three sets of things:
1. Set of things that you could express as having a value in units
  - Joy / kitten
  - Localizable things -- plug it into NumberFormat, get something other than the raw value (currency fits here)
  - Values that are convertible. We might have things that are convertible but not localizable
Alternately:


| | Localizable | Not Localizable |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| **Convertible** | Meter     | Light year     |
| **Not Convertible** | USD |  Joy per kitten |

---

### Discussion of potential method names

.convertTo

.convertToLocale    .convertByLocale .convertWithLocale

.toLocaleString

---

Eemili(?): Unit as name rather than Measure

Shane: Error bars rather than sig figure or fractional digits?

[discussion ending with provisional decision on fractional digits]

Shane: formatting should be passthrough. everything related to formatting is part of the data model.

Eemili: No mixed units as inputs, mixed units as outputs only. In order for us to complicate the input side of this, we need a positive indicator of a need for non-numeric values as the things coming in.

Discussion of CLDR vs ISO80000. No resolution

